Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we're going to start working on our banner block.
Let's jump right into the action.
So we are not going to be able to finish the entire block in a single lesson.
So our more specific goal for this particular lesson is to just get the admin side of the block to look
like this stylistically.
So basically we just want this exact h html and cc in the editor screen, right?
In the spirit of the what you see is what you get philosophy in this lesson.
We're not going to be worried about making it.
So you can actually click on the text and edit it or click on the background image and provide a new
uploaded background image will add those features in future lessons.
In this lesson, let's just get sort of a static copy of this html insists to load on the admin block
editor screen.
Cool.
So how do we move forward?
Well, there are many different ways that you can organize your files and folders and code while creating
your own block types.
So which approach are we going to take?
Well, let's talk about that.
If you are going to distribute your theme and make it available to lots of people, you do not want
to include custom block types in your theme.
You would instead want to build your blocks as plugins.
That way, if people want to switch to a different theme, there is no theme lock in, right?
All of your blocks would still work because there are plug ins even if someone switches to a different
theme.
However, we've already learned in this course how to create a custom block type as a standalone plugin,
right?
So we've already built the are you paying attention quiz block and we've already created the featured
professor meta value relationship plug in block.
We set those up in a completely independent fashion so that their success, their JavaScript, their
entire code will work no matter which theme you're using.
We've already spent the time to absorb those ideas, and I think in this chapter it would really just
slow us down to build things that way.
In other words, blocks that are our own independent plug in.
So it's really up to you to be aware of which type of theme you're building.
Are you building a theme that you intend to either give away for free or sell to a lot of people?
Or are you building a theme where it's for a client and it's a very custom bespoke theme and there's
really no distinction between the website itself and the theme, right?
If you're building a bespoke WordPress website for a client, a lot of times the theme is the website,
you know, with 100% certainty.
There will never come a time where, you know, the non web developer, owner of the website just going
to go in and switch to a different theme.
That will never happen.
Now that's the approach I'm taking with this fictional university theme and website, but it's totally
up to you.
Depending on your project, it might make more sense to make your blocks available as plug ins, but
that's not the route we're going to take in this chapter.
In this chapter, right within our text editor, our files and folders, I'm just going to include all
of our blocks in our theme folder.
This approach is going to save us a lot of time, and more importantly, it's going to let us use all
of our brain horsepower on understanding block themes and full site editing.
Right?
Instead of wasting brain horsepower on constant context, switching between different plugin folders,
you know, different windows of vs code, activating and registering the different plug ins, so on
and so forth.
So just be aware of that.
I encourage you to follow along with this approach I'm going to use.
And then at the end of this chapter, if in the real world you're going to be building themes that you
distribute to lots of people, that's fine.
You will have learned all of the block based theme concepts.
You'll understand full site editing, and it should be very easy for you to take those concepts and
then simply split them up into plug in folders like we've already learned how to do back in the chapters
when we built these to block plug ins.
Cool.
So right now let's move forward and let's start creating our first custom block in our fictional block
theme folder.
Let's go ahead and create a subfolder.
Now, the name doesn't matter.
You could make up any.